Well I've got the joints set up here to match the character.
And now what we need to do is generate the actual rig with the control objects so I'll go ahead and
select the rig and I'll come over here to the armature panel and I'll scroll all the way down and right
here let's click on generate
and there we go.
Now we've got a rig with all its hierarchy's and parenting as well as all the control objects based
on the rig that we modified to the character.
Now the rig we modified is called Mehta rig.
So I can go ahead and hide that by clicking on the eyeball.
And here is the actual rig now I'll press Z and you can kind of tell.
You can kind of see what's going on in here these ball controls here are the stretchy controls so those
allow you to stretch the limbs and you've got f k and I.K. controls in here as well.
But here let's go ahead and bind the character to the rig so we can see how it moves around.
So what I'll do is I'll go ahead and select the character.
And in addition I'm going to select the eyes because I want to bind the eyes to the rig as well since
those are separate objects.
So I'll select all of those and then I'll press shift and click one of the controls of the rig now to
bind the character to the rig we just need to parent it.
So when you press control p.
And now we've got the set parent menu and I want to set parent to the armature form with automatic weights.
So if I click this it doesn't really appear that anything's happened however if we select one of the
controls and switch it from object mode to pose mode.
Now I'm going to press our twice to rotate and now you can see we've got the head down to the rig and
it's really a pretty good bind.
It even got all of the ears.
So I mean that's pretty good.
I'm going to press the N key to bring up the properties panel over here and if I scroll all the way
down we can see we've got these rig Lehre buttons.
And what I want for this character is I want both the legs and the arms to be inverse kinematics.
In the last series I did we set up I.K. for the legs but we used forward kinematics for the arms.
So what do I mean by I.K. and FKO just real quick.
Let me turn the metric back on just to talk about this for a minute forward.
Kinematics means that the rotations are happening on a chain forward down the hierarchy.
So if I wanted to move this leg let me turn this off for once once again and I'm going to take this
and go to the rotate tool so forward kinematics would be I would rotate the leg like this.
And then I'd maybe like this part of the leg and rotate the leg like this.
So I'm moving the leg by going forward down the chain.
All right let me undo these now for inverse kinematics.
What that allows you to do is select a control down here at the base of the chain.
And as you move it the rotations or the control happens inversely up the limb.
So if I selected this this foot I.K. I should be able to hit the key and move the leg around.
But I can't.
Let me show you what I mean if I hit the G key.
It doesn't do anything.
So what we need to do since I don't want to use f k for the arms or the legs.
I'm going to turn off f k over here the arm L and the arm are and I'm a turn off f k for leg and leg
are.
Now that I've done that and I've got this foot I.K. selected I'm going to drag this slider the influence
here from f k over to I.K..
Now if I hit the G key and move it around you can see I can move the leg and even stretch it way out
like that.
All right so let me do that for this other leg over here like that slide that over I'm going to select
the hand I k now while I'm here actually I can't see this control through the character.
So what I can do is come over to the object panel and choose x ray and now I can see all of the control
objects through the character.
So I'll take the f k like a slider and drag it over and I'll do the same over here.
So now we should be able to grab that control and hit G and move the arm around.
And that looks pretty good.
Same thing over here.
Grab that control and move it around.
Yeah.
And we can even rotate it here as well.
And in addition we've got our I.K. controls for the legs.
Now I can grab this torso control and now I can move it down and he can kind of do the squats.
So that's how we can set up the iCade chains for the character's arms and legs.
Now all of these pieces here you can see if you select one these are kind of stretchy controls and I
don't think I'm going to be using those much if at all.
And in fact I think I'd like to hide them so I can come back over here and go to the armature panel
and scroll up a bit.
And these controls are on these different layers here so if I select this one I can see that it's on
this layer.
So all shift select that one to hide those.
Maybe I'll select this one and I can see that that's that layer shift click that one.
So like this one.
And that's the layer here.
And I'll select this one and it looks like that's the layer over here so I can hide those controls so
they won't be in my way because I don't think I'm going to be using any of the stretchy functionality
for the rig.
So quickly the way these controls work.
We already tested the head.
I can press the our key twice and it kind of gives you a free rotate which is kind of nice for the head
and for the neck here you can rotate it back and forth like this.
Now you can see that the jaw is kind of coming along with the rotation of the neck here.
So we're going to need to work on the weights for that.
So keep that in mind.
Let's test this one here.
I'm going to hit R and rotate that so you can see that the shoulder and that looks pretty good.
We can rotate it forward and back this control here is your torso or they call it the chest here.
I'm going to hit our twice and rotate that around.
You can see what that does.
And this one here is the pelvis.
And if I take this and move this box down a bit so he can squat you can see that he kind of does the
hula dance there.
Nice moves there guy.
These controls back here are for the elbows and these here are for pointing the knees.
So if you're using I.K. and you move say the arm around like this you may want to point this elbow in
another direction say you want it to move down here or out like that.
In terms of the hands these are pretty slick here.
You can just select this control and hit s first scale.
And as you scale it in the two joints at the end of the finger curl in this control right here controls
the roll of that first joint and this control over here on this side.
Let me just like that and I'll zoom in here.
This control allows you to rotate and kind of splay the hand out a bit.
Use adjust that Pinky as I mentioned.
These are for the knee control or knee direction you can use those to point the knee where you need
them to be.
So if I moved this leg up like this let's say and I wanted the need to point out more this way I could
do that for the feet.
You've got the toe control right here that allows you to bend the toe up and down but you also have
the foot roll control at the back.
And this allows you to roll the foot up on the ball of the toes there and roll the foot back onto the
heel so that's a nice foot roll rig that they've added for us here.
And then finally the master control allows you to move the entire character and place it within the
scene.
Now I would not recommend if you have a character walking or moving or jumping through the scene.
I would not recommend animating this control.
This to me is really used to place the character in the scene at the beginning and then use the rest
of the controls to move it around.
Now as a game character will be doing just about all of our animation right here in the center of the
grid.
He'll be idling and running and jumping all here in place in the center of the grid.
Will I have to admit I'm very impressed with the bind of the character here.
I really liked the results but we still are going to have to do some work to tweak how certain parts
of the character form like.
I think this control here pulls the belt buckle out and in through the belt.
So we're going to have to work on that.
So there's some tweaking we're going to need to do to the weight to get it to look correct.
So that's what we'll be working on in the next video.